In this lecture we're going to make it so the user can now send out a tweet they already have the ability
to log in follow and unfollow people and now they're going to be able to actually send out a tweet.
So this is a really exciting lecture for us.
We're going to use a dialog box to do that.
It should be pretty interesting.
Let's go ahead and dive into it.
So the first thing that we want to do is many users logged in we want to show a little menu here so
that they can tweet.
We also want to give them the option to log out in case they don't you know don't want to be in anymore.
So if this is the case what we're going to do is we need to create a new menu.
So let's open up our little resource directory here.
And we don't have a menu so we're going to have to make a new Android resource directory.
And this is going to be for menus.
So go ahead and create that first.
Then we're going to right click and say hey we need a new menu resource file and I'm going to call this
one just tweet underscore menu and we'll go ahead and create that.
So I'm going to move over to the text version of this.
I feel like it's the easiest way to work here.
And we want to add two items the first one is if somebody wants to tweet.
And so if that's the case we're just going to say item and then we'll do Android title and we're going
to set this equal to tweet and to any E's on a tweet.
There we go.
Then we need to set a proper ID on this.
So the idea is just going to be all lowercase tweet.
Will go ahead and wrap that up then we are going to do a second item we'll just go ahead and copy and
paste that.
And the title for this one is going to say log out and the ID for this one is going to be log out.
So those are our two menu options there.
We'll go back to the project here and now we want to get over to our users activity.
Okay.
So with that in place we got to make sure that we inflate the menu and then also allow some code to
be run when the user selects an option.
So we're going to go up to the top here above the Create and the first method that we're going to implement
is the on create and create we want create and this is the Options menu just like that.
So we are going to return that super on create eventually but the first thing that we want to do is
get a menu inflator which we'll call menu inflator and this will be a new menu in flater let's pass
in this and after we've done that we want to say menu inflator to inflate and then we'll pass in first.
Our menu We'll get to that by our DOT menu not tweet menu should be showing up for some reason that's
not appearing but I'm going to guess that this is like those other areas we were seeing earlier with
Android studio so I trust that it's there.
So I'll leave it there for the moment and then we want to pass in the actual menu object.
Okay.
So that will inflate our menu then the next thing that we need to do is respond when somebody selects
one of the menu item so this is going to be on options item selected.
So again with this one we want to return that eventually but before that we want to do a little statement
to see what the user has selected.
So the first check that we're going to see is if the user is trying to tweet.
So if they are in fact trying to tweet we need to get this item that was just passed through here and
we're going to say item that get item ID and we're going to see if this is equal to capital our DOT
and you that tweet underscore menu.
OK.
And again that's showing up red for us.
But I trust that that's going to work.
And then in the situation we're going to do another half say if we're going to check the same thing
except for this time we want to see if this is equal to oh I see you what my air here.
So this is actually supposed to be just tweet and or I'm referencing that part was correct but here
we actually want to do our ID.
So we're going to do our ID and this is where it will do or Crace tweet and of course it does recognize
that either.
And we'll do our ID in lower case log out.
So these areas are kind of driving me nuts here is something like go ahead and hit run.
This will hopefully clear these out for us and we can even check out and make sure that the menus showing
up just like it's supposed to.
So this will kind of be a nice double whammy for us.
So wait for a second for that to load.
And look our heirs disappear just as we expected.
And now if we wait for it to open up should see that menu.
And boom there's those two beautiful options.
So with that behind us the code for logging out should be fairly simple.
We're just going to say parse user log out.
Simple enough and after we've done that we want to move back to the logon screen so we're going to make
a new intent which will just say lower case intent is equal to a new capital intent and we want to first
get the application context and then we want to move over to Main activity class so we can go back to
the log in screen and then we just want to start that activity.
So we'll go ahead and pass in the intent there.
But then what happens if someone wants to tweet Well this is the really fun part of this right.
This is where we're going to write out this dialog box and makes it so that user can compose a tweet.
So first thing that we need to do here inside of our tweet side we need to get an alert dialog.
So we're going to say alert dialog dot builder and we're going to just call this our builder and say
this is equal to a new capital alert dialog builder and we'll just pass this as a context.
Then once we have that in place we want to take this builder and set a title for our alert sort of set
builder set title.
It will just pass inside of here send a tweet.
Excellent.
So with that in place then we need to go get access to the edit text that's going to come from there
so we're going to make a new edit text.
And let's just go ahead and call this a tweet edit text just like that.
Oh we have a tweet we want to do tweet so tweet at it.
Text is equal to a new added text and we'll go ahead and pass this for the context.
Now that we have that we're going to take our builder and we're going to say set view on that and we're
going to pass in that tweet added text that we had just created and then we are finally able to start
setting some buttons here.
So we're going to say for example build or set positive button.
So the positive button this is saying they want to send their tweet.
So we'll just type in there and send And we want this to be a new dialogue interface with an on click
listener is this sort of coming back to you all the code that we had written for this when we first
learned in this situation let's just go ahead and log out.
That you know we had this successful thing you know the send button was hit.
So we'll just go ahead and put info inside of here.
And the thing that we want to send out is the tweet.
So we're going to get to our tweet edit text.
Get text not transition.
OK.
Tweet edit text get text.
There we go.
And with this we want to convert that into a string.
Excellent.
And we should be able to log that out and we'll do a semi-colon there.
So that's our positive button.
Now let's talk about the negative button we're going to say build or set and negative button.
And so for this one we want them to say you know what.
I actually didn't want to tweet.
I want to cancel this.
But we still need a new dialogue interface and inside of this one we're also going to log out some information.
But in this case we're just going to you know say things didn't work out so we're going to say log and
we'll put it here and just say no I don't want to tweet.
OK.
So put a little exclamation point at some anger then it's really important with this that we take the
dialogue interface that was passed inside of here and we do a dot cancel on this.
This will make it so the box disappears and if you don't do that you're going to be stuck with this
alert dialog in front of them the whole time.
And then once you've done all this we can take our builder and say show to finally show that dialog
box.
So with this all in place let's go ahead and give it a test.
Of course we don't have any information in here to actually send this into parks but that will be our
next step.
We just want to make sure our alert dialog is working like we thought.
So let's open this up.
Let's say I want to tweet Oh look at that.
That looks excellent.
Let's get Lague cat ready to go here and let's say I want to tweet out my first message.
Hello.
And I hit send.
We do that.
And down here below I'm not getting any sort of information that this came through.
But it's also showing that this was disconnected so many will connect to the new look at that you connect
to the right that's running and it will show you the correct information.
OK so it said Hello.
Let's say I also want to tweet but this time I hit cancel.
Well then you'll see I don't want to tweet.
So we know that that successfully working.
So really the only step for us now is to make it so that when someone hits that positive button that
we can actually go send a tweet on their behalf that actually log something inside of parce.
So right below where we're logging out the information that's saying Hey we were able to successfully
edit this tweet or send out this tweet.
Now let's actually go and make a parse object.
So we're going to say parse object and we're actually going to be creating a new class here and say
parse object that we'll call tweet is equal to a new parse object and inside of here we want to pass
the name of the class or we're going to do a capital tweet.
Remember this is a new class that's going to show up right here on the left side.
So let's get back to our code.
And with that in place then we can start putting some information into this tweet.
And the main things that we want to know is what did the person tweet and what user tweeted that.
Those are kind of the two key pieces so we'll start first and say What did the user want to tweet.
And so we're going to say tweet got put in the key for this one is going to be a tweet and then the
information that we want to send in there is this tweet edit text.
Get text string.
So go ahead and paste that in.
And the next one is to determine or put inside what the user name is of the person that wanted to send
this or we're going to do lowercase username and then we want to pass in whatever the current users
name is so we're going to do parse user get current user or get user name.
Right.
And that'll pass that through.
So with that in place we just now have to save this tweet in the background so we're going to say tweet
save and background.
We do want to call back with this information to tell the user whether or not it was successful and
to close out that dialog box.
So we're going to say new save callback.
And with this first thing that we're going to do is check for an exception.
So I will say all right if you are equal to null then we have no problems.
Life is great and we'll just go ahead and do a toast here to tell the user hey everything was successful.
So do TOSed make text and we'll go ahead and pass our user's activity here.
So users activity class excuse me.
This is the context and then we're going to say whatever it is that we want to say like tweet sent exclamation
point.
That seems like a good message to share.
And then we'll do a short toast to let them know this and we've got to do a show at the end.
So that's if things are successful now if things didn't work we're going to have an elde situation and
we still want to show a toast.
But this is going to be a toast that basically says hey things didn't work out.
Sorry to let you know about it so we'll go ahead and put that toast down below.
OK.
So this one instead of saying tweet sent.
We're going to say tweet failed and then we'll go ahead and do a little frowny face to really say yeah
things just didn't work out here.
So with all this in place let's go ahead and run this.
See what we get
get emulator here is.
Check it out.
Here comes the app and will hit the menu.
Say we want to tweet our first tweet Shelby.
I like cheese.
It's my classic phrase I'll go ahead and send that.
Look at that says tweet sent.
Let's confirm.
So right now you can see there's no class that says tweet.
But if we reload the page look here's a tweet.
It has one object.
And from the user name of Nick the tweet was I like cheese.
OK.
Well we're getting really really close with this Twitter app.
We have all the users that we can follow we can now tweet ourselves we can log out.
The last step is to be able to view everybody's tweets and I'll go ahead and show you how to do that
in the next one.